.\" Copyright (c) 2006-2007 rPath, Inc.
.TH RMAKESERVER 1 "23 May 2006-2007" "rPath, Inc."
.SH NAME
rmake \- Environment-controlled package building tool for Conary
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /sbin/service rmake \fIcommand \fR[\fI<args>\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBrmake\fR server is the back-end for rMake, and controls such elements
as rMake's database, repository, and changeset cache.

For information on using rmake, see \fBrmake(1)\fR.

\fBNote that rMake is now at a STABLE RELEASE; behavior is generally likely
to remain the same or be expanded upon until the next major release of rMake.
(Major versions are described by a bump in the first or second number, 1.0
to 1.1 will be a major version bump).  Backwards compatible changes may be 
made. Read the NEWS file for information on changes and updates.\fR

.SH REFERENCE
The rmake server is a daemon process with minimal user interaction facilities.
It does provide for configuration of parameters such as paths and listening
port via a configuration file, however. 

.SS "Server Management"
Use the following \fBcommands\fP to start, query, and stop rmake server.
.TP 4
.TP
.B config
Displays current configuration parameters for rmake server. Configuration
values are detailed in the FILES section of this manual page.
.TP
.B reset
Deletes everything in the current rmake repository and database. Use reset
to begin using rmake with a new database and repository.
.TP
.B start
Starts the server
.RS 4
.TP
.B \-\-no-daemon (\-n)
Runs the server in the foreground instead of in daemon mode
.TP
.RE

.TP
.B stop, kill
Stops the server
.RE
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.\" do not put excess space in the file list
.PD 0
.TP 4
.I /etc/rmake/serverrc
The rmake server configuration file

Configuration values can also be specified via command line options, including
the \fB\-\-config\fR option, which allows you to override one line in the
config file, and the \-\-config-file option, which reads in an additional
specified config file that overrides all other configuration files. The 
\-\-skip-default-config option causes the server to not read
/etc/rmake/serverrc for configuration.

Note that you can always use \fIrmake config\fR to see the current value of a
configuration item.  This is the most surefire way to read what rmake will
actually use as a configuration value for a given item.
 
The rmake server configuration items can be strings, boolean values
(\fBTrue\fP or \fBFalse\fP), or mappings (\f(BIto from\fP) and can include:
.PD
.RS 4
.TP 4
.B buildDir
Directory under which rmake builds.  For security reasons, this directory must 
be owned by the rmake user and group, and its permissions must be set to 700.
The build dir must have the following sub-directories also owned by the rmake
user and with 0700 permissions: archive, chroot, chroots.
.TP 4
.B chrootLimit
Number of chroots that should be allowed to be created on this machine at the same time.  After this point, old chroots will be deleted, or reused if reuseChroots is True. Defaults to 10.  Turned off if set to 0.
.TP 4
.B chrootHelperPath
Path to chrootHelper, defaults to /usr/libexec/chroothelper
.TP 4
.B logDir
Directory for rmake server log output; default is /var/log/rmake
.B NOTE: log formats and paths are very likely to change in the future.
Watch the NEWS file for updates.
.TP 4
.B lockDir
Directory to create lockfile in; default is /var/lock/rmake
.B proxyUrl
Location of the proxy to use for rmake; default is http://LOCAL:7778.  The LOCAL part is a keyword stating that rMake should manage this proxy by starting it up and shutting it down along with the rMake server, if the value is changed to localhost, rMake will not manage this proxy.
.TP 4
.TP 4
.B reposName
Name of the internal repository; default is based on the current hostname.
If you are using DHCP, you may wish to set this to something stable. 
If you wish to use another repository for rMake's internal storage, set this 
to the name of the server to which you wish to commit.
.TP 4
.B reposUrl
The URL at which the repository can be found.  If the hostname is LOCAL,
rMake will manage this repository, starting it up and shutting it down with
rMake.  Otherwise, rMake will try to contact this external repository for
storing its internal data.  If rMake is managing the repository, you can
change the protocol to https to make the repository require communication
via SSL. Note that changing this value is recommended only for advanced
usage. rMake commits builds to this repository automatically, and if you
are not using the rMake repository then rMake cannot reset the repository
for you.

Default is http://LOCAL:7777/
.TP 4
.B reposUser
Similar to Conary's configuration. Accepts a server glob, user, and
password. These should be the values needed to access the rMake repository.
If used, the server glob should match with serverName, and the username and
password should be values with write access to that repository. If left
blank, rMake will fill them in with the following default values:

<serverName>, rmake rmake.

.TP 4
.B slots
Maximum number of individual packages (not jobs) to build in parallel within
a single job on one rMake node.

.B serverDir
Directory in which the rmake server stores data
.TP 4
.B useTmpfs
Causes rMake to mount a tmpfs filesystem at /tmp within the chroot, where
all rMake builds take place. With this memory-based filesystem in place, rMake
builds will generally be faster but require more memory and less disk space.  Note that failed builds will not leave around their build directories after the 
build completes - they will be unmounted when the build finishes, removing all 
of the contents.
.TP 4
.B useCache
Allows you to disable the rMake internal cache and always download from the 
repository.  This may be helpful in the case where you have an external cache
that can generate the required changesets just as quickly.
.TP
.SH
.PD 0
.TP 4
.TP
.I <logDir>/buildlogs
Log files for individual builds
.TP
.I <logDir>/repos.log
Log file for repository
.TP
.I <serverDir>/repos
Internal Repository files
.TP
.I <serverDir>/repos/serverrc
Automatically generated 
.TP
.I <buildDir>/chroot
Chroot directory
.TP
.I <buildDir>/cscache
Location of cached changesets
It is reasonable to run tmpwatch on this directory.
.PD 0
.TP 4
.I /etc/sysconfig/rmake
If this file exists, rmake will read it for CONARY_PATH and RMAKE_PATH values,
to determine where to search for the conary and rmake libraries.
.SH BUGS
You can report rmake bugs at http://issues.rpath.com/
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
cvc(1)
.br
conary(1)
.br
http://www.rpath.com/
.br
http://wiki.rpath.com/
