.\" Copyright (c) 2007 rPath, Inc.
.TH RMAKEMULTINODE 8 "17 Feb 2007" "rPath, Inc."
.SH NAME
rmake-multinode \- Server changes made when using multinode rmake.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B New configuration values and changes to functionality for multinode rmake.
.SH DESCRIPTION
Multinode rMake is used via a plugin that is installed in
/usr/share/rmake/plugins.  When multinode rMake is installed, it will be used
by default.  You can turn it off by adding --no-plugins to the
command line or either "usePlugins False" or "usePlugin multinode False" to
your configuration file.

Multinode rMake involves several components that are not available in free rMake:  The \fBmessagebus\fR, which passes communication between different
components of rMake, the dispatcher, which determines which nodes receives
the commands sent by different jobs, and any number of worker nodes
(see rmake-node(8)).

For information on using rmake, see \fBrmake(1)\fR.
For information on using rmake with the multinode plugin, see \fBrmake-multinode(1)\fR.

.SH FILES
Using the rMake server with multinode rMake is almost exactly the same,
except that you need to set up rMake nodes (see rmake-node(8)).  The following 
extra configuration values are also available for the server:

.\" do not put excess space in the file list
.PD 0
.SS /etc/rmake/serverrc
The rmake server configuration file has one extra configuration value not available in standalone rMake configuration.  Also, the following rMake configuration values are ignored (but allowed to allow the same rMake server to be used in multinode and standalone rMake without configuration changes):  buildDir, chrootHelperPath, slots, useCache, useTmpfs.

.TP 4
.B messageBusPort
Port that the rMake server is running its message bus on.  This value must match whatever value has been set on the nodes that wish to communicate to this server.

Defaults to 50900.
.TP 4
.B rmakeUrl
Location at which to serve rMake.  Can be one of the following:
unix://<path>  http://localhost:<port>/ or https://localhost:<port>/.  This
URL must be used by clients and nodes that wish to connect to this server.

Defaults to https://localhost:9999/
.TP
.SH
.TP 4
.I <logDir>/dispatcher.log
Log file for the rMake dispatcher. 
.TP
.I <logDir>/messages/
Messages sent to different components of the multinode system are sent here in debug mode.
.TP
.I <logDir>/messagebus.log
Log for the messagebus, describing connections and communications sent by the messagebus.
.SH BUGS
You can report rmake bugs at http://issues.rpath.com/
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rmake-multinode(1)
.br
rmake-server(8)
.br
rmake-node(8)
.br
rmake(1)
.br
cvc(1)
.br
conary(1)
.br
http://www.rpath.com/
.br
http://wiki.rpath.com/
