.\" Copyright (c) 2007 rPath, Inc.
.TH RMAKENODE 1 "17 Feb 2007" "rPath, Inc."
.SH NAME
rmake-node \- Helper node that communicates with the rMake server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /sbin/service rmake-node \fIcommand \fR[\fI<args>\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
An \fBrmake\fR node is a daemon that allows you to use a machine as a node in an rMake build cluster.  It almost never opens up a port (unless the "rmake chroot" command is used) but instead attempts to contact to a multinode-aware rMake
server.

For information on using rmake, see \fBrmake(1)\fR.
For information on setting up the multinode rmake-server, see \fBrmake-multinode(8)\fR.
For information on using rmake with the multinode plugin, see \fBrmake-multinode(1)\fR.

\fBNote that although rMake is released software, it is under heavy development - API changes are likely.  However, whenever possible, such changes will be made backwards compatible.  Read the NEWS file for information on changes and updates.\fR

.SH REFERENCE
The rMake node daemon may be operated with the following commands:

.SS "Server Management"
Use the following commands to start, query, and stop the rmake node.
.TP 4
.B config
Displays current configuration parameters for the rmake node. Configuration
values are detailed in the FILES section of this manual page.
.TP
.B start
Starts the node
.TP
.B \-\-no-daemon (\-n)
Runs the node in the foreground instead of in daemon mode
.TP
.B stop, kill
Stops the server
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH FILES
.\" do not put excess space in the file list
.PD 0
.SS /etc/rmake/noderc
The rmake node configuration file

Configuration values can also be specified via command line options, including
the \fB\-\-config\fR option, which allows you to override one line in the
config file, and the \-\-config-file option, which reads in an additional
specified config file that overrides all other configuration files. The 
\-\-skip-default-config option causes the server to not read
/etc/rmake/serverrc for configuration.

Note that you can always use \fIrmake-node config\fR to see the current value 
of a configuration item.  This is the most surefire way to read what rmake will
actually use as a configuration value for a given item.
 
The rmake node configuration items can be strings, boolean values
(\fBTrue\fP or \fBFalse\fP), or mappings (\f(BIto from\fP) and can include:

.SS rMake-Node only configuration values
.TP 4
.B rmakeUrl
URL of the rMake server that is running multinode-enabled rMake.  When
setting up multiple nodes to communicate to the same rMake, this
configuration item will have to be set on every node.

Defaults to https://localhost:9999/.
.TP
.B name
Name that this node should be displayed as when displaying the node in node listings.

Defaults to the first part of the hostname value up to the first period.
.TP
.B hostname
Hostname that network connections to this node should be sent to.

Defaults to the fully qualified domain name.
.TP
.B loadThreshold
The maximum load that this node should be at before new build jobs are not routed to this node.  The node will update the rMake dispatcher (see rmake-multinode(8)) with its current load every half a minute, allowing the dispatcher to spread build jobs evenly among the nodes where there is free processing power.

Defaults to 2.
.TP
.B buildFlavors
Flavors that this node will accept.

Jobs will often have an architecture associated with them - for example, a package that is being built with tools that must run on an x86_64 system must run on an x86_64 system.

The build flavors set for a node defines what types of architectures or other flavors the system can support.  A positive flavor (is:x86_64) states that that flavor can be built on this system.  A negative flavor (!xen) would state that packages with that flavor cannot be built on this system.  A missing use flavor has no affect on whether a trove can be built, however, a missing architecture does.  So a trove with flavor ssl,x86 could be built on a node whose buildFlavor wasis:x86, but not one whose flavor was "ssl".

The default values for this configuration item are calculated automatically based on /proc and should be correct.

.SS Shared Configuration fields
.TP 4
The following configuration fields are shared between the standalone rMake server (which acts as if it had a built-in rmake-node) and the multinode node.

.TP 4
.B buildDir
Directory under which rmake builds.  For security reasons, this directory must 
be owned by the rmake user, and its permissions must be set to 700.  It must
also have the subdirectories "chroots" and "archive" owned by the rmake user
with permissions 0700.
.TP 4
.B chrootHelperPath
Path to chrootHelper, defaults to /usr/libexec/chroothelper
.TP 4
.B logDir
Directory for rmake server log output; default is /var/log/rmake
.B NOTE: log formats and paths are very likely to change in the future.
Watch the NEWS file for updates.
.TP 4
.B lockDir
Directory to create lockfile in; default is /var/lock/rmake
.TP 4
.B useTmpfs
Causes rMake to mount a tmpfs filesystem at /tmp within the chroot, where
all rMake builds take place. With this memory-based filesystem in place, rMake
builds will generally be faster but require more memory and less disk space.
.TP 4
.B useCache
Allows you to disable the rMake internal cache and always download from the 
repository.  This may be helpful in the case where you have an external cache
that can generate the required changesets just as quickly.
.RE
.SH
.TP 4
.I <logDir>/buildlogs
Log files for individual builds
.TP
.I <buildDir>/archive
Directory where all archived chroots are kept.
It is reasonable to run tmpwatch on this directory.
.TP
.I <buildDir>/chroots
Directory where all chroots are created.
It is reasonable to run tmpwatch on this directory.
.TP
.I <buildDir>/cscache
Location of cached changesets
It is reasonable to run tmpwatch on this directory.
.PD 0
.TP 4
.I /etc/sysconfig/rmake
If this file exists, rmake will read it for CONARY_PATH and RMAKE_PATH values,
to determine where to search for the conary and rmake libraries.
.SH BUGS
You can report rmake bugs at http://issues.rpath.com/
.\"
.\"
.\"
.SH "SEE ALSO"
rmake-server(8)
.br
rmake(1)
.br
cvc(1)
.br
conary(1)
.br
http://www.rpath.com/
.br
http://wiki.rpath.com/
